How we transition from machine learning
to deep learning is this next step.
So, let's talk about deep learning next,
what is deep learning and
where this deep or deep is coming from?
I'll have to tell you a little bit about
the neural networks and neurons first.
So let me introduce those concepts and
then we will return back to deep learning.
So in 60s, 70s, well, and
actually in 50s as well,
people come up with idea
that we can probably try to
reproduce what's happening in our brains.
What's happening with the neurons.
And the way how neurons operates, if
they have a lot of input signals, right?
Some data coming into the neuron.
Neuron somehow can figure out what
is important and what is not.
It can be activated or it can just
simply ignore the input signals, right?
And you have the whole chains of those
neurons connected to each other, right?
And at the ends, we're somehow processing
all of that input data which is
coming to us in form of visual signal,
for instance, right, or sound.
And all of those, something happening
with those chains activations or
de-activations.
And we're doing something
with this information.
And people figured out,
we can probably try to replicate
this process in the machine, or
through the algorithm, right?
And let's say our algorithm, our model,
and I'm gonna call it neuron.
First of all, what it's doing,
what's kinda the input information?
Well, it can be just
some channels of data.
So let's say, we can call it X1,
X2, X3 and X4.
In computers, this data will be in
form of provided numbers, right?
It can be integers or floats.
Let's say just our floating point numbers.
And, for
example I will assign 0.1 to X1 and
then -4.7 to X2, 0 to X3.
I don't know, 500 to X4,
something like that.
So all of that is our input data, right?
Then we need to do something in the neuron
to basically aggregate all of the data and
maybe ignore some of the channels,
maybe amplify some of the channels.
How can we do it mathematically?
Well, we can assign weights
to all our channels.
So W1, W2, W3 and
W4 is gonna be our weights,
which we simply associate with
the corresponding input channel.
And for instance, if we want to completely
ignore the signal coming from one channel,
what we can do, we can simply multiply
X1 by W1, but W1 can be equal to 0.
So if our weight's equal to 0,
it will nullify,
it will completely dismiss
any data sitting in x1,
because anything multiplied
by 0 is equal to 0.
That's one of the ways to simply
ignore any input channels.
If, for instance, W2, other weight,
is pretty big, let's say, 500,
multiplied by X2, it will simply amplify
the signal coming in our X2 channel,
right?
And the same thing, for instance,
if I want to deamplify the signal,
for instance, in our X4, I have 500.
I can multiply it by weight,
which is really,
really small, like 0.001.
And in this case,
it will give me just only half.
So that's the way how we can simply
modify the signal amplitude, right?
But then, all that information coming
from all different sources, and
I need somehow to shrink it to one
information piece, how can I do this?
Well, I can simply just add
all of those numbers together.
I forgot X3 multiplied by W3.
Right, so in this case I simply saying
which channels I wants to ignore,
which channels I want to amplify.
And adding the signal together, right?
And that's becoming one signal,
which I can then process.
So mathematically, all of that,
all of what I just draw,
can be easily written
as summation symbol Xi multiply by Wi.
That's our input signals multiplied
by all of those weights, right?
And right now we're not talking about
how weights should be selected.
I'm just saying they are there.
They describe what our neuron is doing.
And also, just for
reasons which will be clearer later,
we're adding some additional constant,
bias to all of this distribution.
It will allow us, for instance,
if we have constant signal going,
we can then normalize it or shift it.
So basically,
I'm adding bias to our neuron.
And all of that is one data.
So now in the neuron,
we have just this one data channel.
Which is represented by
this simple formula.
And I hope it's not too mathy, right?
Those concepts are pretty basic.
We simply just somehow modified
the input signals, right?
And now we want to do something with it.
So what can we do?
In the neurons in our brain,
simply some neurons are activated,
and in this case, they can just
send the signal to the next neuron.
Or sometimes the signal is just simply
ignored, or a neuron is do nothing.
So mathematically speaking,
we can say that if the neuron is
activated, it can just output 1.
And if it's not activated,
it can just output 0.
That's it, right?
How can we do this in our data, we can
have pretty much with all this summation,
we can have any numbers from minus
infinity to plus infinity, right?
And we can probably just do something with
those by modifying weights and biases.
But it's still pretty large distribution.
So to kind of do this
transformation from minus
infinity to infinity
into a space of 0s and
1, we can use sigmoid function, sigmoid.
It's easier to explain what sigmoid
is doing by just drawing it.
So let's say our axis, or,
no, we used axis before, so
let's just call it data,
or input, input is better.
So in our input axis, we have everything
from minus infinity to infinity.
And on our output, we want to have
something between 0 and 1, right?
Or sometimes minus -1 and 1, depending.
These rules, like don't have zero once,
it's what we define, right?
And basically,
sigmoid is the function which
is equal to pretty much 0 or
something really,
really small at infinity and
crosses the 0 at 0.5.
And then once, again, can go to
pretty close to 1 at the infinity.
So that's what sigmoid function is.
And no matter what you
provided as the input,
it will shrink the distribution
of the outputs from 0 to 1.